Started coding as well. So.
And here is the result.
So we can also go through
this a scan this. QR code.
So let me put the question here.
OK, so here is the question.
We'll offload these lines after
the lecture for sure, yeah.
So based on what we covered so far,
which of these statements are true?
Uh, we have a program and we want
to run it on a computer system.
Uh. Can we say machine runs our
program processor runs that program?
Colonel runs our program operating system.
Shall none of them or all of them.
So we have 48 votes,
but we have 74 students so.
Other students please participate.
Guys were waiting for you.
So it's still we need two more votes please.
So we don't see any progress. Wake up guys.
OK, so let's see the answer based
on the knowledge we covered so far.
So what is the answer?
So, uh. Processor runs our
program at the end of the day,
the only part of the computer system
that runs our program is the processor.
So you would say I mean all of the above are.
If you are not a computer scientist,
or if you haven't had this course,
you could say all of these
statements are true,
but based on this course we said
that the processor is the only
component of the computer system that
runs the opcode of your program.
So all the other statements are not a,
I mean three size or valid.
So before this course you would say
operating system runs our program
or in machine runs our program.
But after knowing the content of this
course you know exactly what part of
the computer system runs our program.
Uh. Luckily, I mean most of you.
I mean,
very few of you put the shells or
canal and we already know that the
shell only bootstraps our program.
It doesn't run our program.
Also, kernel is just to help for our program,
so it doesn't run our program.
We can request the kernel to do
something for us by system calls,
but again, it doesn't run our program.
Machine runs our program.
It's a very general vague statement,
because what part of the machine
runs our program?
The memory part doesn't run the memory part,
just store opcodes.
So the processor was operating system.
We said operating system has
different components, caramel,
shell and optional library routines.
But again,
operating system is just help for our
program is not going to run our program.
So the correct answer is the processor.
All of the above.
These are for this student that.
They just want to put out some answers.
So yeah, let's start with,
uh,
the remaining part of last week's lectures.
Or we didn't have enough time to.
A cover that so I'm going to quickly
go through the remaining part
of the slides in the last week.
So we have a question Isaac ask.
Suppose we have a program designed
to use both the CPU and GPU.
What would be the correct answer for that?
Ah. That's a tricky question.
Yes, this is an advanced question.
Basically all right now we can use the GPU,
I mean another type of processor
inside the video card.
But it's still these are processors,
so it's still at the end of the day.
The processors are able to run the code,
so either it's a type of CPU or it's of type.
I mean GPU any.
These are different types of processors.
At the end of the day, the opcodes
should be executed by a processor,
whether it's a GPU or CPU.
GPS are not in main board,
they are on video cards,
but still there are processors,
so the correct answer is still is
the process around our program, yeah?
Makes sense, I thought.
So. We covered a lot of I mean uh,
terminologies and keyword, uh,
before telling the actual history
of development for the Unix and the
reason was that in order to explain
the evolution of the Unix, you need to
know these topics or these concepts.
So that's why we introduced
these topics before.
So now you know what this operating system.
What is Unix? What's the goal of Unix?
What is biased?
Massive would record how they
kernel is bootstrap by the BIOS
and MBR master boot record.
What is the program compiler opcodes
linking to library routines, system calls?
We set any call to.
The kernel is called a system called.
IRQ's or the calls from the hardware to
the processor and the processor involved.
They handle inside the kernel.
And it's set up.
So now I'm going to very quickly go
through the actual history of the Unix
up until current modern operating system.
So now you know that.
I mean, what is the unique space
or Unix like operating system.
So as I said, the at first they were nothing.
Basically you had to code on
opcodes and you have to manually
load your opcodes to the memory of
the machine and make it a process.
But it is a very hard task to do so
because of that, uh, they started to.
I mean,
introduce a new language assembly
language and then we write our
program by the assembly language.
But again,
running the assembly language
programs are hard,
so we set up at the Bell labs.
We tried to write another programming
assembly that helps other program to
run as smoothly on a computer system,
and that was the birth of the
Unix and so far we have.
These huge are different versions of
the original operating system Unix.
So I'm going to explain a little
bit about these branches,
but here is the current time.
So you see all of the different operating
system correctly available on the market,
and you can either freely download and use
it on your computer, or you can buy it.
So the only operating system missing
here is the windows by the Microsoft and.
Uh, I may briefly mention that.
But again, as you can see,
even the windows, the original,
I mean the base of the operating
system of Microsoft,
which was DOS still was based
on the same idea of the Unix.
So.
The project was this, uh,
there wasn't made huge mainframe
by General Electric and, uh,
they are in order to make the
most out of this huge mainframe.
They tried to make it accessible
to multiple users,
so they started a research project by.
Collaboration with MIT researchers
and Bell Labs researchers,
and they developed the operating
system and operating system.
So this is not the machine,
it's a program.
In order to make the mainframe
available based on different time
slots or time sharing system.
So it's on the first operating
system called Multics,
and because it provides multiple
access to be a mainframe.
But this is not the first operating
system because it was a failure.
The code for the Maltese was huge and it
was hard to debug this huge operating system
and it was slow at the end of the day,
the researchers quit this project
and two of them from the Bell Labs
Dennis Ritchie and can Thompson.
They came back to the Bell lab.
And it's on the same idea of the multistate
start to write a new operating system.
But for a single user on this mini computer.
So this set up, let's have a very
simple version of the Multics.
Much simpler,
but just for one user to interact with
the computer system and the complete
system was this mini computer PDP,
they call it a.
Unite Plexed, I mean compared to the Multics.
Uh, or multiplexed and at first
it was pronounced in Knox and
gradually it becomes the Unix.
The original Unix operating system
was written in assembly language and
it was shipped uh with an assembler.
To translate the assembly lines into
opcodes with an editor to write the
assembly programming language and
the shell to bootstrap your program.
So we said that the even this simple
operating system becomes large and large,
and so maintaining this huge
lines of code where mass.
So they introduce a new high level
programming language C and they
return the Unix in C language.
And this is the first version
of the Unix in C language,
and then they give it to a compiler,
make it an assembly lines and
give it to the assembler.
Make it on.
Opcodes and running on this computer.
So that was the first operating system.
But the the only thing here is that he was
the only operating system on this machine.
So only worked at this machine at this mini
computer for the users of this machine.
And.
So at the time there were a
lot of different machines,
so they tried to imitate or
follow the same idea of operating
system to use the operating system
and other different machines.
And so instead of writing an
operating system from scratch,
they decided to reuse the Unix.
So, but the only problem was that Bell
Labs was in the communication business,
so they couldn't make it product
out of the Unix.
I mean, in order to sell it,
or in order to deliver
it to the programmers so.
Dennis Ritchie this is Dennis
Ritchie and Ken Thompson.
Ken Thompson decided to
illegally release the.
I mean the source of the Unix.
By this signature and then other
programmers could have an access to
the source code of the Unix and they
tried to run it on their machine.
Later, Bell Labs changes the
business to I mean computer products,
so then they could build.
I mean, provide licenses.
I mean commercial licenses.
You can buy the Unix at
the time at this amount.
And correctly $96,000.
Uh, but uh, it releases the free licenses
to the educational institutes, uh?
So then the researchers in these schools
could change the code for different machines.
And that was we said that this
this was the first gathering from
to promote using Unix on different
machines as an operating system.
So this gathering called used
next or I mean Unix users.
And you can see that this is the Dennis
Ritchie and these are all different.
In professional programmer programmers
that they wanted to adjust Unix
for different computer systems.
So why this gathering actually happened?
The main reason was that not only to
promote using Unix as an operating system,
but also there were problems with
running Unix on different machines.
So we set Unix was originally
for the PDP7 mini computer,
but when they tried to run the opcode
of the Unix on different machines,
we said that because the machine
is different,
the process is different,
so they had to change the outcome.
So they use the assembler of their machines,
but it's still the opcode of
the Unix couldn't work.
So basically we said that they
had the source code of the Unix.
They compile it to assembly lines and
then based on the assembly of their
machines they give it to the assembler
and create the upload of their machines.
And bootstrap the kernel into their machines,
but it's still there.
Face some issues,
some errors at the opera
couldn't executed normally,
and this was the first platform that was
tried for Unix as a different machine
other than the PDP minicomputers.
And what was the problem?
The problem was that.
There were some part of this source code
of the Unix dependence on the machine.
For instance, when they write the Unix,
are they assume that the standard
input is the keyboard?
I'm just giving.
Some example is not the true examples,
but uh,
by machine dependent code it means that.
Inside the C code lines of the Unix,
they assume some part of the
system is available,
so when they shipped the source
code to another machine,
the those devices were not
available or were different.
So as a result,
those part of the Unix that written
by C but depends on the system.
Couldn't I mean run?
On another machine I mean smoothly.
So that's why they make that gathering
and they tried to remove those.
Dependent code on the machine in
order to make it platform free Unix.
So that was the, uh,
I mean the attempt by the
Berkeley University.
I mean, the University of California,
Berkeley.
So they tried to remove those
hardware dependent code lines
of DC from the Unix and try
to make it platform free.
So as you can see here,
this is the BSD or Berkeley
software distribution family.
All these operating system was.
I mean, we're rooted in this,
which is originally did from the Unix.
So for instance, Stanford researchers,
they released this version of the
Unix and later the Sun Company.
I mean, which was indeed a hard work.
It's a hardware company.
They released their own
operating system called Solaris,
and then the Oracle bought this son
company and now the soloist is the official
operating system provided by Oracle.
But again,
you can see that this is originated by
the researchers from Stanford, etc.
Also we have different versions of
the British software distribution
of the Unix free net and open.
To be honest, I'm not familiar.
I mean with most of them,
because you can see there are a
lot of different operating system
you have the chance to work only
with very few of them,
but an interesting operating system is
the Mac works that you have the chance.
Most of you may have the chance
to work with that,
so you can see that this is a branch
of next step which is also a branch
of the BSD version of the Unix.
So you see, because the code is open.
Any researcher could download the
code and change the code for their
advantage for their machines,
so that then you can see that
there are different versions.
All are routed to the Unix.
There is another type of family.
Basically, these families are officially
supported by the lab Bell Labs,
I mean, different versions of the Unix.
So I mean the same researchers at
the Bell labs and industry chain.
Can't they improve the Unix and
they released their own version
of the Unix so you can see these
are the different versions of the
Unix by different companies, etc.
This is called system three or
system four family of the. A Unix.
For us, the only thing matters here is this.
The source code of the Unix is available
online and you are allowed to download
it and then change it based on whatever
you like for your system or for any
other tasks that you have on your hand.
So that's why,
and then you can sell it.
Or you can upload in your repo and ask
others to use your operating system.
That's the way it happens during history.
So.
After all these efforts by the
researchers to remove the platform
dependent part of the Unix,
so now you can run Unix.
Uh, on any other machines or any
other platforms, hopefully.
Still, you may,
I mean see some problems based
on the specific machines,
but that was the attempt they tried to do.
So now we can claim that we have a
platform free Unix, meaning that.
The final versions of the OR the
modern versions of the Unix are able
to be run on any machines because
they are not platform dependent.
However, uh, I mean, you see that,
for instance, in Mac OS?
It's a version of the unique
that is also a specifically for
the Mac hardware devices,
or you see the Microsoft which
is specifically for express,
I mean a specific category
of hardware and such.
But I mean to do is I mean to,
uh, I mean very good degree.
We can say that Unix is a platform fee,
but the main question is what version
of the Unix versions by the solar and
salaries or division by the BSD and etc.
So when we say Unix, now the main
question is what version of the Unix?
But as I said, the main attempt
was to make it platform free.
Within this timeline.
There was an exception and this is
the exception by Richard Stallman.
He started his own operating
system called new project.
So this is also an open
source operating system.
Follows the same idea of what's
the benefit of operating system?
And but The thing is that the codes were.
I mean, we're done from
the scratch by this guy,
and gradually then I mean the
modern version of the improved.
The latest version of this operating
system is called here too.
So this is another operating system.
It's not the Unix based operating system,
but it is follow the same design pattern.
Of these we can save it is a unique like.
And, uh,
but Richard is Stallman and the
group project is not famous
for their operating system.
So you may not heard about
this operating system.
However, they are famous this
project and this guy is famous for.
Another topic that I'm going to explain,
and by the way I mean it is
called blue and glue is not Unix.
Actually it's a kind of recursive
abbreviation,
so they purposely choose this name.
Just you have to.
I mean, it's really like this news, not Unix.
So we can say this is Unix like,
not unique space.
We can see it's not rooted to the Unix.
But what was the main idea
of the group project?
So Richard installment tried
to promote or get together,
the researchers that promote releasing
these sorts of the software or programs.
So basically he said that in order
to advance the computer programs,
we have to release the code,
not only release the code,
but also we have to allow changing
the code for the benefit of the user.
So he proposed the idea of
open source community.
Compared to the closed source.
So when we say closed source,
meaning that you are able to use the program,
you have the op code of the program only,
but you don't have the source code,
change it.
You are able to change the opcode,
but again of course changing is very huge.
I mean it's a lot of information
and it's very hard.
But I mean close source
means that you don't have the
celines to change the software.
So open source is in contact with that,
meaning that you have the source code
to see code lines of the program,
and you can change it and you
can compile it and have a new
version of the software.
So what's the problem?
The problem was that in English
we have a word free.
Which has two different semantic.
But in French,
I'm not good at French at all,
but oh,
or in other languages we may
have two different words for two
different semantics for the free
one semantic of free means that
you are trying to use something
without paying any money.
So basically you have the product
without paying any money.
For instance free beer.
So you can have free beer
without buying the beer.
However, you can say free software.
Or free something in a way that you
are allowed to change that product for
your own sake or whatever you want.
So this is basically based on the
semantic of freedom or Lipke.
So when we say that you are
allowed to change a product,
it means that you have the freedom.
To change the product so that's
the ambiguity of the word free.
So he said that when we say free software,
we don't mean having a software
product without paying money.
We mean having the software product
with the source code first of all
and second of all we are allowed
to change their source code and
release a new version of that.
And you also can sell it for instance.
So basically these are two
famous code by Richard Stallman.
He said when you say.
Free in software domain.
In this open source community you have
to think as a free speech or freedom,
not just free beer.
So based on this idea,
whenever we say open source software
or we say lipfert or free software,
we really mean you have the source code
of the product and the software or
program and you are allowed to change it.
What in any way you want.
So for instance, one one example is
that usually Microsoft is a closed.
I mean releases the program as
a closed source,
but sometimes it gives the product for free,
so we cannot say this software
by the Windows or free softwares.
Based on this idea,
although you can have the product
for free and you can use it,
but you are not allowed to change
the code it.
I mean it's illegal.
Also you don't have the code to change it,
so then you are not allowed to.
You won't say software products by Microsoft
or free softwares or free programs.
Yeah,
that was the main idea.
So and this is a huge benefit
for the units because this is
borrowed from the Kent Thompson,
who releases the source code of the Unix.
But this community make it a kind of
legal approach to the programming
and make it a community based uh,
among the programmers.
So and the main output of the open
source community is the current,
I mean a famous operating system Linux.
So what was this story?
Uh, you may hear about Andrew
Tananbaum annual Tannenbaum.
Is I mean, he he's the author
of the operating system book,
which is, I mean, globally.
This book by this guy is taught by in all
almost all the schools around the world.
So in this book,
in order to explain the topics of
operating system tananbaum used.
Important part of the Unix as
the sample code in his book,
if you buy the book the book ship
with his CD and the CD contains the.
See lines of a important part of the Unix.
So because it is a,
it just includes the main part of the Unix.
For the I mean for the educational purpose.
So it's called mini Unix or mimics.
So this operating system will
released open source,
meaning that you have the access
to the sea lines.
But you are not allowed to change.
The license is just to have
it for I mean open.
But you are not allowed,
so it's you cannot call minutes as
it open source or free software.
Although you have the code but
you are not allowed to change it.
So that was the problem that
Linux travels actually had.
He saw some codes inside dominix
which were not optimized and he
was an advanced programmer and he
wanted to make it more efficient,
but he wasn't allowed to do that
because of the illegal issues.
So then he decided to have a his
own operating system by following
the idea of the MINIX.
So you can see it's not directly attached.
It's kind of following the design
patterns and the they waited.
Minnix actually is working,
but not directly using the code of
the Minutes because it was illegal.
And then when he started writing
his own operating system,
he released it based on the
idea of the group project,
meaning that he released the source code
and also he allowed other programmers
to change the code for their benefit.
And that was the main.
A idea behind the Linux and the
main reason behind its widespread
use among the programmers.
So if I ask you.
Linux is a unique space or Unix like.
What would be your answer?
So I'll answer your question,
but let's see. So Linux is a Unix
based operating system or Unix like.
Yes, correct. As you can see,
it's a Unix life because it's not
directly uses the code by Unix.
Also, it's because it's not
directly uses the code by MINIX.
So we can say it's a Unix like because
it followed the same idea of Unix.
It has the kernel,
it has the different managers and etc.
So we have a question here. Ah.
Victor asks us so our Linux
distribution in general more optimized
and standard cooking hood up.
I have no idea because the programmers
for these two operations are different,
so I'm not going to promote
any operating system.
Against others,
so it depends on your experience with
the operating system and it depends
on for what type of task you are
going to use the operating system.
For instance, for mobile phones,
so they use the Linux,
the kernel of the Unix for the mobile phones.
So they basically use the kernel of
the Linux 8 and add some features for
mobile for the smartphones so they
could do for instance based on the Sun
OS or the Solaris or other operating system.
But they figured out that the Linux is,
I mean more stable.
So, uh, you have to use it and you
have to see the limits or the I mean.
The other advantage of the operating systems.
So I have no answer for your question.
Victor then.
Uh, there's another one.
The Harvey asked.
Solar is an update of Sun OS.
Yes,
I mean,
the official name for the Sun OS
becomes the Solaris and it is currently
maintained by the Oracle because
Oracle bought the sound company.
So. OK, so any other questions?
So as you can see here, uh.
Because Linux was released
based on the glue project,
so you usually say glue Linux,
meaning that Linux is distributed based on a
free software by the meaning of new project,
meaning that it's elliptical software,
meaning that you can download the code.
You can change the code and you can
release your own operating system.
Uh, one thing is that when I was a
student I was a student back home.
I'm from Iran,
so they decided to write a new
operating system for Persian language
so the whole operating system was
working based on the Persian language
instead of the English language.
So they had the source code of the Linux.
They tried to change it or a new
operating system for Persian language
you can do for instance for Indian
language for Chinese language.
So any new version of the Linux.
Can be released by you.
You can for instance team up with
other students and have your new
operating system and put it on Internet
and promote others to download your
operating system and install your
operating system on a computer.
So you can see these are the uh,
as I said,
Lipa or free distributions of the Linux,
Debian, Fedora and want to.
This is the most famous one.
Play some mice that most of the
current programmers use a bunch
of because it's very stable.
Also, Debian is also a good one.
And these are the commercial distribution,
meaning that these companies
got the source and they add a
lot of advantage to that.
For instance, they make it visual.
I mean the Shelar has the
graphical user interface and they.
Release it as a closed source
and they sell it.
I mean these are free, but you have police.
These are not free.
You have to pay money for that.
Ah, this one question for me still,
so I put it as a lecture assignment
for you next week so you can Google
about that and find the answer.
Because based on the blue project.
It sounded good project, it says that.
If you're following the group project.
And you have your own version of the product
you are not allowed to change the license.
You have to release your product
following the same idea.
Basically you have to release the code
of your product and also you have to
allow others to change your code as well.
So but here I'm not sure how we can have
the commercial distribution of the Linux
because Linux is released as a group project.
So I'll leave it as a lecture somewhere
for you and do research on that.
Ah, I successi isn't Debian based,
so old burn to users or actually
using Debian with a coat of paint.
In my humble up ah. Again, I mean,
let me let me show I'll be back.
I'll be back with your question.
Uh, I saw so the whole story was
that now you know when we say unique
space what we mean by Unix based.
They are rooted in the source
code of the Unix Unix log,
meaning that they started from scratch,
but they followed the design pattern.
As you can see here,
there were some operating system
that they were originally Unix based.
But gradually they become unique slide,
meaning that they totally renew all C
code lines of their operating system.
So we have these type of
operating system as well.
So, and to answer your question,
so let's have a look at this hierarchy.
So this is the same but more
detail evolution of the units.
So this is the Unix to operate.
The first operating system by
Dennis Ritchie and Kastam firm.
The green ones are the open source,
so you see here Linux.
There is no direct route to the Unix
and mimics also Unix like it doesn't.
Attached to the units by this uh.
A diagram. So in the right side you
see these are all closed source,
meaning that they release it and
you have to buy it and you have
no access to the source code.
These green lines are not only open source,
they are lifted or free softwares,
meaning that you can have
this code and change it.
So in order to answer your question,
I said you say that I mean
the Ubuntu is a Debian based.
You see, as you can see.
Uh, you have to see the change of
Ubuntu and see how many of the source
codes are used from the Debian project.
So these are versions have the website,
so you can actually go to their
website and see the code lines.
And because they are available online.
Definitely there are some reviews,
but definitely there are some
I mean differences. So, uh.
I'm saying that you are.
You cannot say that.
I mean you buntu is 100% based
on Debian so it used some part
of that changing some problems.
This is the this is the beauty of
the open source community and also.
Then it might be a disadvantage,
meaning that, uh,
you cannot say that something is
completely based on another thing.
One thing is, if you look at this picture,
you can see that some operating system.
Or uh,
using some open source and using
some closers so.
This is kind of a using multiple resources
to have a good operating system.
So these are just.
I mean you can follow these stories
on Internet, but what's the problem?
We see the advantage of the open source
community meaning that as a programmer
you can change the operating system
and have your own operating system.
But what's the problem?
The problem is that.
Now you have many different machines,
but you already had a platform free Unix.
Because of the open source,
a open source of the Unix,
now you have huge versions of the Unix.
As a programmer,
not as a system level
program as a programmer,
you want to write a simple Hello
world program and you want to run
it on top of an operating system
on top of the computer system.
So the main question is that which
version of these unixes are the best one?
Which version are the most reliable one?
If, for instance,
1,000,000 people are using a boon to and
2 million people are using for instance,
uh, they released by the BSD?
If I'm writing A C program to do Hello world,
what market I have to target?
I have to write my program for
Ubuntu users or BSD users or which
one which Unix I have to select
and then write my own program.
Because we said these are operating system,
they have their own kernels.
They may have different system calls.
So now that as a programmer
I want to write a program.
Which system call I can call and
which operating system I have to
assume that my program going to use.
That's a huge problem and we
call it a Unix wars.
So basically each of these companies,
they claim that our version of the Unix
operating system is the standard one.
So because they wanted to
promote their own version.
So that was the beginning of the wars
between different versions of the Unix.
And, uh, they tried to Princess.
Dennis Richard can stops and said that
we are the original Unix they released
by the University of California.
They said that we are the
standard for the Unix.
Linux says that we are the
standard for the Unix we have.
So basically each of them becomes a.
I mean,
kind of.
Famous and they start to claim
we are the standard for a
offering for an operating system.
So.
What's the problem?
This is an example just to
show history problem.
So imagine currently you have all these
different versions of an operating
system and assuming that they are
either Unix like or Unix based,
and you are going to write a
program that does allocating memory.
Just ten bytes of memory you need for
your program in order to do that,
you have to ask the kernel to allocate
10 bytes of memory from RAM to your program.
So we said that any request the
kernel of the operating system
is called system call.
So you have to do a system call inside
your program to have 10 bytes of memory.
So if you assume that you are going to run
your program on a Unix or original Unix.
For example, the name of
this system call is asks.
So then inside your C program you
have to call this function.
As a system called. However.
Later, the system level programmers
they try to improve the Unix.
For instance, in Linux Debian they
may change the name of that system.
Why? I don't know,
because they figured that the name is not OK,
so they pick it better name.
So anyway they change this
system called name.
Now your program doesn't work.
You have to change the source code of
your program to make it Debian compatible.
So then only the users on
Debian can use your program.
What other I mean versions for instance?
Now if a user wants to run your
program on Lubuntu in a boot to be,
there is no system called for that.
So your program doesn't work on that.
I mean on that OS.
And the same for instance in
MapQuest they decided to change
the name to for better naming.
So they put a for instance.
So now your program breaks.
So you have to again release a
version of your program for Mac
version of your program for Ubuntu,
a version of your program for Debian and etc.
So basically as a programmer in
celebrating one single program,
you have to write multiple versions
of the same program because.
There the system called names is different.
So this is a huge mess.
I mean it's a huge load on
top of the programmers.
Yes, hi Doctor Kathleen, how are you?
I'm sorry. Otherwise, your story.
Thank you.
It was doctor Kathy. So.
Yeah, so what's the solution for sure?
Karen, what's this solution?
The solution is that.
We asked the programmers.
If they wanted to have their own
version of the operating system,
do not change the name.
Or do not change the input side
or do not change the output value.
Sorry, the type of the output a,
I mean value.
So who wants to force the programmers to
follow these guidelines or these policies?
So basically the program is
that gathering they use.
Next they tried to find the
standard for an operating system.
They say that none of these versions
are considered as a standard version,
so let's try to standardize
and operating system.
Ideally,
an operating system should have what
system calls and what are their names.
So they try to look a minimum.
The standard or common denominator?
But not this system,
so they don't provide actual code,
they just say these are the
interface or a standard.
So basically,
they say that any opening system should
have a system called to allocate a memory.
And the name must be XK and
the input should be,
for instance in number of bytes.
The output should be the
address of the allocated memory.
But the inside the function we we don't care.
So basically,
as long as the input,
if you are doing this system
called to allocate 10 bytes,
we don't care that that version
of the operating system offers 5
+ 5 bites to provide ten bites or
provides one byte plus 9 bucks.
In another world,
the implementation or the inside,
the function doesn't matter for us.
However,
the name of the system called and
the input and output should looks the same.
Why?
Because then other programmers
can safely run a single version
of the program without worrying
or without being concerned about
different names of the system calls
or different arguments of the system calls.
Makes us.
Thank you Lucas.
Thank you meysam behavior about others.
You have 86 student. Any question?
So these are very important.
So that was the responsibility
of a group called Open Group.
Basically Open Group bought
the trademark of Unix.
And these are the community of researchers.
They say that we don't want to provide
a new version of an operating system,
we just wanted to provide this
standard for an operating system,
meaning that standard operating system should
provide these system calls with this name.
With this input and with this app work.
So.
The standard is called process,
meaning that portable operating
system interface you see portable,
meaning that if you write an hour
program based on the post standard,
it is guaranteed that your
program gonna be executed
without any problem on any post
six compliant operating system.
So these are the researchers from
the IEEE Computer Society so,
and the goal is this maintaining the
compatibility between operating system.
So if you write a program hello word.
And your C program language or C
programs are based on the POSIX standard.
All the operating systems that are
standardized by the process can run
your program without any problem.
So the next question is that the
original Unix is POSIX compliant.
The answer is no,
because during the time of this
group feels like that we need
additional features as a standard
for the for an operating system,
so it posts the current version
of the process is basically needs
or requires an operating system
to have more features than the.
Original Unix by Dennis Ritchie
and can't stop so.
And what what are these?
What is the standard?
So there are three main parts.
Actually, they started to standardize
the kernel of an operating system.
Again, they don't provide the code,
or they don't provide an operating system.
They just provide the
interface or a standard.
So basically they try to
stand out the system calls.
These are the list of the standard system
calls according to the Post 6 standard.
So basically,
any standard operating system should
have an implementation for this
header file to do asynchronous IO.
Or, for instance,
provide this one for directory
entries or the most famous one is
this working with these strings?
Or others you see,
these are the list of socketing will do this.
I mean later after the reading times to do.
Uh, to access the time of the system and etc.
So what is the implementation?
We don't care,
you can do these implementation in Java.
You can do these implementation in Python.
You can do these implementation in C.
We don't care.
However,
you have to provide this system called
on top to the shell and the library
routine and to the applications.
Inside it you don't care,
but the behavior should follow this standard.
So this provides a standard
expectation of the system called
for all these C programmers.
There are some optional system calls,
as you can see here.
For instance,
in Mac OS there is no implementation for this
system called so because these are optional,
we don't care.
But these are the mandatory as you can see
these are different versions of the Unix.
All of them are checked.
Uh,
for these system calls.
So then if you write a program that
does the system called for for instance
to multithreading or for instance to
reject regular regular expressions and etc,
you.
Guarantee you're guaranteed that your
program gonna be safely executed,
and this operating system on Linux,
Mac Consolers.
You see there is no.
Microsoft based operating system,
meaning that Microsoft has its own operating
system and doesn't follow the post standard.
The next was that the this group,
the Open group tried to
standardize the shell.
Meaning that whatever you
are going to ask a shell,
such as Buddhist wrapping your
program or other commands that
we are going to discuss today,
they try to stand out,
standardize those commands as well.
As you can see,
within the time they tried,
this is the original shell by the Bell labs.
Actually, it was designed by the Steve.
Worn at develops,
but within that I'm a brand new versions
of the shell because it adds more
command and more advanced features,
so these are improvement
to the original shell.
However,
the Open Open Group Society picked
original shell as the standard,
so meaning that any operating system
in order to become a POSIX compliant
must have at least the commands
in the original Bourne Shell.
This is the name of the design
of the stillborn,
so which is called shell.
We'll see what are the commands in the shell
and what are the features in the shell,
but the main important thing is is this.
If you want to release
your own operating system.
And your operating system must have a shell.
Then this shell should implement the commands
or the behavior of the original shell.
The Bourne shell.
You can see other shells has advancements,
but they are based on.
You can see this hierarchy,
they are all.
Based on the original shell,
so they are POSIX compliant.
So one example here is this.
One of the commands in the shell is the
LSU already used it in your lab last week.
Also this week you are going to use it.
LS means that list in the list
of the files and folders.
SO46 says that any shell should have
this command with this name LS,
meaning that the list structure.
However, in windows.
In the doors or the command
prompt of the windows,
the command is called the IR,
meaning that the directory list.
Then we say that the Microsoft
Windows are not posts compliant
because the shell off democrasoft.
Windows doesn't have this command,
although has a command equal command,
but the name is different.
Because the name is different,
we said this is not a POSIX
compliant operating system.
So that's why, uh,
you can easily work with a Mac OS.
You can easily work with Linux.
We can easily with any different
versions of the Linux,
but when you go to the windows,
suddenly you have to learn new stuff.
Because the name of the command,
the name of the the name of the
system calls are all different.
That's why you have to release.
One Windows version of your program
and one Linux version of your program.
And the open group came.
I mean step further.
In order to standardize the library routines,
we said that the library
routines are optional.
Part of the operating system.
But if you want to make your
operating system POSIX compliant,
you have to provide minimal
library routines to the programmer.
So you already use,
for instance the header math to do the
mathematical functions STD or to do the.
Ah, printing in printing out some
character or accepting some inputs.
One thing you have to pay attention is this.
Is string that Edge is a library
routine required by POSIX standard?
However, if we go back to the system called,
we have extremes. Dot H.
So be careful about the names.
Strings is a system called,
but string is the library routine,
so it's just a normal call.
You have to link it in your program,
either statically or dynamically.
OK. And if you want to read
more about this standard,
if you decided to release a
version of the I mean operating
system which is posted compliant,
you can go to this URL.
And read, this is the latest version of the
standard for any standard operating system.
So let me just give you a quick example.
For instance, according to
the standard POSIX standard.
If function print F should looks like this,
the name should be printed up.
The output value should be integer
and the first input argument must
be characterist or constant,
meaning that a pointer to it.
Location of type character
and she should be constant.
As you can see here, it doesn't have
anybody because it's a standard.
So you can go to this link
later and see more.
But there is no C code
because it's a standard.
Now, other versions of the Unix in
order to become post six compliant,
they should implement this standard.
So this is the Berkeley software
distribution from the University
of California for the printf.
If you go to this URL,
you see the actual code lines of the printf.
So this is the header that I put it here.
You see,
based on this version of
the operating system,
the return type of the printer is void.
It doesn't return integer.
As a result,
the BSD releases of their operating
system are not posts compliant.
Just because of this incompatibility.
So basically, if you write a program,
you assume that printf returns an integer,
but if you run your program on top
of an operating system by DST,
it doesn't give you an integer,
so your program breaks.
How about the Linux?
Although Linux is not a Unix
based operating system,
but it seems that if it is
following the post standard,
if you go through this URL so.
I'll show you the code.
If you go to the actual code of
the printf by Linux. The name is.
Print off the return values integer and
the first input argument is constant care.
The start. So, and it has a huge body.
I'll show you the body.
Then we can say that printf
is POSIX compliant.
In Linux operating system.
So what is the code the code is?
I think this is the code yet.
This is the code of the printer by Linux,
so if you go to this URL you can see all the
source codes of the Linux in C language.
If you look at the header file.
So.
Let me go back to.
Who is naya? Oh wait, a sack. I have to get.
So here you see that in the header
it says it is written 9192 byte.
Linux terminals,
and indeed a founder of the Linux.
And here is the code for printer.
So if you see these lines etc.
The final printf code is this in
print app and discuss the actual
printing for you on a Linux device.
So you can change this code and you press it.
You make it more efficient,
but you have in order to be processed
compliant you have to follow this.
A signature.
So now the question is that can we
say Linux is a process compliant?
The answer is mostly.
Although the printer app is post 6 compliant,
there are other parts of the links
that are not processed compliant,
so Linux has its own standard.
It's because it's a huge.
I mean, uh, it's famous, so it it.
He is big, so he says I'm not going
to follow anybody so I have my own
standard so he it has his holy standard.
But mostly you can for instance make sure
that 80% of the code written in post.
I mean we can see language follows
the POSIX standard gonna be.
Executed without problem on Linux.
But mostly I mean there you may have
a C program that breaks on Linux.
How about Mac?
A Mac OS before 2009 was
not process compliant.
The first operating system,
and this is amazing because usually the
Apple Company has its own standard etc.
But this is amazing.
The first Post 6 compliant
100% posts compliant operating
system is the lower part by the.
Apple Company, the Mac OS,
which basically says that any
program following the post
standard gonna be run on this
version and later version of
the Mac OS without any problem.
So now let's back to the questions.
Uh, before let's me in this year.
Any question so we have
a question from Michelle.
Does he approve all of the changes
to the Linux to this day off?
Uh, I'm not sure you have to.
I mean, there is a video.
I put it in the blackboard
so let me show you this. Uh,
in the blackboard in the discussion board,
uh, in the Miss part.
Uh, I put the tech talk?
Uh, no, not this one.
Where was that?
He was in.
Lecture. Yeah, here in the lecture
forum I put it at talk by the.
Liniers he this YouTube video,
he explained right now about 1000
programmers are working on the Linux kernel,
but uh, he he doesn't have control on
versions of the Linux, for instance.
If you go to the Debian.
Debian source code.
Debian had its own website.
So this is the source code of the Debian,
so it has its own kind,
I mean group and the programmers.
For instance, if you want to see
the actual code for the printf,
you have to search this this code.
I think it is lift.
And then new.
Yeah, you can search and
find the source of the deal,
so I think he's not have.
He doesn't have control on Debian
because they've been its own,
I mean, but it's my guess.
But he is controlling this in the
push to the kernel of the Linux. Yeah.
So you can read. I mean you can
know more by watching this URL,
I mean YouTube. Any other questions?
Yes, I mean it's better to.
I mean, uh, either send it direct
email to Lynn's or a Google that yeah.
There's a lot of I mean
stories around the Unix, so.
Please that any change can
be made by the community.
Ah, yes, Victor, correct. Actually,
Linux is following the group project,
meaning that slip up a project.
But this the main thing is that
they have their own standards.
So they say that if you want to change,
please follow this guideline.
It's a pleased you are not forced to do that.
If you go and change and change
the source code in a new way,
not following any standard.
It's good for your own sake, but, uh.
Other users are not going to write programs
to be run on your operating system,
So what is the benefit of having an operating
system that nobody going to use it?
So that's why,
although you have the freedom
to change the coding anyway,
you lie,
but it's good to follow a standard
because then you allow other
programmers to run their programs
on top of your operating system.
So let's continue with the.
Simplest part of an operating system,
which is the shell.
So I hope you already
watched this movie series.
I mean the born it is called the
bone identity and then there were.
About four next movies about this guy.
It's a story of a CIA assassinated.
I mean have it?
I mean, kind of memory problem.
Uh, called Jason Bourne
and the actors Matt Damon.
So I highly suggest you
to watch the first movie.
I mean the Bourne identity.
And but what's the reason we put
this because the first shell of
the Unix is developed by stillborn,
and it's called Bourne Shell.
So that's the reason I put this slide here.
So I'm going to quickly go through
the shell and then we have more
stuff for the next lecture.
I only said that the lab and
lecture assignment for this
week is already on Blackboard,
so please go and have a look.
And now.
Let's start with the shell,
which is the easiest part
of the operating system,
and then gradually go toward the
kernel of an operating system
and see whether the system calls.
So we said that the main purpose
of the shell is bootstrapping an
application and application level program.
So,
but there are some other tasks
that we can ask a shell why?
Because before asking the shell
to bootstrap our program,
we may ask the system some questions to
know the status of the computer system.
For instance,
is there other programs available
on the computer system or is there
are any other files that are
not up codes or or not programs?
Friends images or audio files and etc.
Or what are the files?
I mean,
can I have a list of available files
in the computer system so these
are the questions that you may ask
before bootstrapping your program,
because it gives you a kind of
current status of the computer system.
For instance,
if you want to know what is
the size of the files,
even your program that you want to see,
what is the size of your program?
Is it possible to ask the
computer system to give up?
Give us this information?
For instance, if there is some
hidden files in the computer system.
And other stuff.
For instance, what are the
available spaces inside the memory?
What are the available spaces
inside the hard disk drive?
And many other questions.
So in order to.
Have the answer to could be questions
that we may ask the computer system.
The first, uh, and method question
kind of the first question before
asking the actual questions or this.
Who knows the answer?
Uh, from who we have to ask these questions.
Either we have to ask this question
from an Oracle kind of God.
Person knows everything,
or we as a programmer knows the answer.
Already, so there's no need to ask
such questions or shell knows that.
All the answer to the question
kernel knows or processor.
So what would be your answer?
If I want to know what is the
available space is inside the memory.
So who knows the answer?
Or if I want to see what are the other
programs inside the computer system,
who knows the answer?
So Justin says Colonel Colonel yes.
Basically processor only
execute your program.
It doesn't know anything.
Shell it just bootstrap your program.
It doesn't know anything.
The part of this system that knows
and take control of everything
knows what are the hardware,
whether the status of the
different devices is the kernel.
So the only component that knows the
answer to these questions are the current.
So then you have to ask these
questions from the kernel.
So the next question is how?
Do you have to communicate verbally to
the kernel with English language to ask
these questions or you have to write up
codes and then ask the kernel which one?
So Mason says, shall Lucas is op code,
Daniel opcode. Basically,
in order to ask your question,
there is no way to, I mean,
verbalize your question with the kernel,
because Kendall is a program in opcode.
So the only way you can ask the kernel is.
By system call,
in order to do this system called your,
you have to write a program and
make it up code inside the memory.
Because your program becomes a process
and the process does this system called.
So you have to write opcodes.
We set that up.
Code is difficult to write,
so you have to write a
program for your questions.
So basically you have to write.
A C program.
Compile it, make it an opcode as
the shell to bootstrap your program,
and then through the system called
you have the answer to your questions.
For instance, if you have this question,
you want to see what are the
files inside the hard disk drive.
So basically you want to see
the list of files.
So in order to do that,
you have to write a C program.
And then compile it,
making an opcode asked the shell
to Buddhist drive your program,
and then the shell do a system
call to the kernel to load your
program and brings it inside the
memory and make the process so
your program becomes a process.
But the main task of this process is just.
A print out the list of files.
How are you doing a system call?
So then your process calls added it,
added as a header of a system called and
do a call to a function inside the kernel.
The part of the kernel that knows what are
the files or the names of files and etc
is called file system or File Manager.
So in your program,
you do a system call to the file
system part of the Colonel,
and the Colonel returns the list
of all files in the hard disk drive
or USB drive and etc.
And then your process prints out the list.
This is the easiest way to ask your question.
So if you want there,
what is the C code for doing this?
This is the C code for that you can
go to this URL, so let me show you.
Let me see if I have the code for that or no.
So. Yes, this is the code for that.
So if you go to that URL
you see the code for.
A list asking doing the system called
to the kernel and a return the
list of files or folders you see.
All these lines are in C.
Programming language.
So you have to write.
How many lines you have to
write about 5000 lines of C and
compile it in order to do a
system called to the kernel and
see what are the other files?
So is it? I mean, ah. Easy or no,
just for a simple question from the kernel.
What are the other files you have
to write 5000 lines of C code?
So definitely it's not an easy task.
So what is the solution?
So next lecture I'm going to
explain what is the solution
for writing is simple question.
Uh, and asking the question from the.
Colonel. So we're done with today's lecture,
so now I'm ready for your questions.
So Victor asks,
does that active compiling the program.
Not only converter written code into
our code, but also stored into memory.
No Victor, we already said.
So when you build your program,
when you compile your program,
it becomes assembly lines and when
you make it called an assembly,
it becomes op code,
but it's still it's in a file.
It's not in memory.
You have to ask the shell to
load to bootstrap your program.
So basically we shall do a
system call and the kernel loads
your opcodes into the memory.
So as long as it is inside a
hard disk drive or USB drive,
your program is not a process.
It's not able to run your program.
Yes, go ahead.
Victory can enable your microphone.
So yes, Sir. So I'm just trying to
like track like based on lab two,
like the kind of the order
of the sequence of things.
So we we open up basically
like a text editor.
We write our C code and that's actually.
And then we're so when we did that right?
Quick code that was the line that
saved it to the hard drive and then
we use the shell to actually execute,
turn it into assembly,
then opcodes and execute in the processor.
No no no no no no no no no wait wait, wait.
So basically the only part that you
asked the shell is the last part that
you just asked the sheltie load that.
So let me try it on the hard drive
and then the shell loads it and.
Exactly, the compiler is.
The compiler is built into the like.
Is the compiler also a program like
within the kernel, correct, correct?
Not loving the kernel.
Oh wait, wait, no pilot is a program,
so whenever you put the CC you are
asking the shell to run the C compiler
and bring it into the memory to
become ready and do the compilation.
So CC is another program.
A bootstrap by the shell,
so it's not part of the shell
is not part of the current.
It's a simple program written
by another program.
The only task is just translation
to assembly lines.
So in unique feel like they know like
in windows like I would have to install
like like GCC or something, right?
But in Unix it's built right in,
so it's part of the OS then.
Oh wait, so we'll explain this.
I mean, I mean next lecture,
what are the deliveries of the
standard operating system?
So according to the feedback
to the let me back.
So to the.
According to the poll,
six delivery of the C compiler is
not required, so let me go back to.
Who is the? Yeah, it's you.
Oh my gosh. So.
Skype. Yeah.
So according to the process.
Any standard operating
system should have these.
System calls should have a shell
according to this and should have
the library routines like this.
So if you look at these names,
you don't see the CC or the compiler for C.
So then you are not going to assume
that any operating system has DCC.
However, because the process
standard is written in C language,
so most I mean we can save most
almost all of them optionally.
Delivered by the compiler for the C.
Right, yeah?
So this is like you have to have
the compiler built in even to
have the headers work properly.
Not really, because for instance,
for instance, uh, these are.
I mean these library routines and etc.
They are already compiled by a compiler.
For instance in Hussein system,
but they can give you.
Yeah, they're stored on the
hard drive as opcode already,
'cause they've been precompiled exactly,
and then I can give the output
to you so you don't need the CC,
it's or they are already in opcode.
Yeah, and the OP code is.
Like so the the opcode isn't transferable
though right between systems like?
Well, my windows opcodes are going
to be different, but I could.
Essentially, you know,
trade like anything that can.
I best guess conforms to post six I could.
Those are in their changeable
'cause they adhere to the standard.
Exactly, yeah, so one thing as I said,
because the opcode.
It depends on the hardware.
So as long as the hardware is
changing the opcode gonna be changed.
However, the main thing is that OK,
we don't.
We are not.
I mean concerned about that
because we have the assembler of
the machine we have this C lines.
So we write the hello world here.
So we give it to the assembler of Intel.
We have the output for the Intel
we give it to the assembler offers
AMD we have the offer for AMD.
Because we have the source file,
the only thing we have to do is just do it,
reassemble or recompile the program.
But the problem is that that
was the main issue.
That's that's the reason behind the process.
We don't want to change the line.
For instance,
if you want to run your program on Windows.
And then you want to run
the same program on Linux.
You have to change the C lies.
Why?
Because there might be some system
called to the kernel of the windows
that is not available in the system.
In the Linux kernel.
So then you have to not only
compile your program again,
but also you have to change your code
again so it's a burden for programming.
That was the main reason for the process.
Yeah, yeah.
So like I know like.
During the lab, like the Unix,
it's really easy to do,
like a dot zip and so just for fun,
I tried to do the same thing on Windows
and it doesn't have that functionality,
so there's some exactly yes,
that that's the thing that's yeah,
that's that's basically you see,
that's why I mean even in the smartphones.
They're the main reason is that you have,
for instance, OS released.
You have Windows release you have.
These are the operating system
dependent release of the same program?
Why?
Because they are not going
to follow post status.
Right places, Microsoft says that I don't.
I mean, I, I don't rely on the process.
I have my own, I'm big.
I have my own standard,
so that's that's that's
basically the business decision,
yeah?
Just a curiosity is there like
are there people trying to
create like bridges for that?
Or like you know, like interpreter interfaces
that allow like you to like, do that.
You know kind of to bridge that
those gaps in functionality.
Uh, I'm not sure I I'm not aware of that.
It just to see, for instance,
what is the difference between the
operating system and the process you mean?
Yeah, yeah, so like, I guess.
I guess the reason I'm asking that is
so one of the issues I had with with lab
two actually is really the only issue I
had with lab two is during the SCP command.
What I found is that Windows
interprets directory names different
than the Unix system,
and so I had spaces.
And so I have like you know,
classes fall space fall 2021 and it
would not go to the directories with
spaces and so I had to like iteratively
reduce the basically like the path like
in the directories to figure that out.
And so I just wondering like that
seems like a fairly you know not
complex problem and so I was wondering
if there was a way around that or if
someone had created like an interface,
right?
Well,
one thing is that if you read the if
you go to this this link let me if you
go to this link actually one of the
aspect is about the path inside the shell.
So they say that what are the
allowed characters for the path.
So in order to fix that problem in
Windows you have to put that path
if it has some spaces in the code.
So basically you have to say code
and then put the path of the file.
That has the spaces and then close the code.
See,
I tried doing that but it didn't
seem to work for me for some reason.
Maybe I didn't quote all of them.
I need to probably had to quote every
single one to do that or something.
Yeah exactly,
I mean that that that that's that's
the issue. Yes, that's the inequality.
I mean, incompatibility.
That's that's why Windows has
its own standard.
And it's yeah, that's the problem.
Yeah,
one thing is that there are some
apps that you can install on top
of the windows in order to make it.
06 compliant, but it's an app.
Right, right?
Then I as long as you are using that app,
you it's a simulation of the POSIX or
Linux Environment or Unix environment,
but this is simulation.
Gotcha, OK. Thank you Sir.
Appreciate it you're welcome.
So I'm going to be in the office.
So if you have any questions so I'm
ready for your question in the office.
OK, thank you. Thank you Joshua.
Have a great day.
I love you.
I hope there is no question that
I missed a. You too my son.
Thank you, Justin. Thank you, iris. So.
Yeah, that was the question by
Victor. So I'm going to stop.